# Webhook Receiver Project

## Description

The Webhook Receiver Project is a Flask-based web application designed to handle and process webhook events from GitHub. This project includes a backend service for receiving and storing GitHub events in a MongoDB database and a frontend to display these events in real-time.

### Key Components

- **Webhook Receiver**: A Flask application that listens for incoming webhook payloads from GitHub. It processes various event types, such as pull requests and pushes, and stores relevant details in MongoDB.
- **MongoDB**: A NoSQL database used to store webhook events, providing efficient querying and storage capabilities.
- **Frontend**: An HTML/CSS/JavaScript-based interface that displays recent webhook events. The frontend dynamically updates every 15 seconds to show the latest events.

### Features

- **Event Processing**: Supports different GitHub webhook events including:
  - **Pull Requests**: Created, reopened, synchronized, merged, and canceled.
  - **Push Events**: Captures push notifications with branch details.
- **Real-Time Updates**: The frontend auto-refreshes every 15 seconds to reflect the most recent events.
- **Data Storage**: Events are stored in MongoDB with fields such as `request_id`, `author`, `action`, `from_branch`, `to_branch`, and `timestamp`.

### Technology Stack

- **Backend**:
  - **Flask**: A lightweight WSGI web application framework in Python.
  - **MongoDB**: A NoSQL database used for storing webhook events.
- **Frontend**:
  - **HTML/CSS**: Used for creating the user interface.
  - **JavaScript**: Handles dynamic content updates and event fetching.
- **Development**:
  - **Python**: The primary language used for backend development.

### Workflow

1. **Receiving Webhooks**:
   - GitHub sends webhook events to the `/webhook/receiver` endpoint.
   - The application processes these events and stores them in MongoDB.

2. **Storing Events**:
   - Each event is stored with an `_id` generated by MongoDB, along with fields such as `request_id`, `author`, `action`, `from_branch`, `to_branch`, and `timestamp`.

3. **Displaying Events**:
   - The frontend fetches the latest events from the `/webhook/get-latest-events` endpoint every 15 seconds.
   - Events are displayed in a list on the main page, with new events appearing at the top.

### Setup and Installation

To set up and run the project locally, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/parthtaneja5944/webhook-repo.git
   ```

2. **Create a new virtual environment**:
   ```bash
    pip install virtualenv
   ```

3. **Create and activate the virtual env**:
   ```bash
   source venv/bin/activate
   virtualenv venv
  ```

4. **Install requirements and run the application**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   python run.py
   ```
5. **Access the Application**:
   ```bash
   POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/webhook/receiver
   you can use ngrokurl/webhook/receiver as the endpoint URL in GitHub webhook configuration when creating a new webhook event.
   Open your web browser and navigate to http://127.0.0.1:5000/webhook to view the application.
   ```